

INTRO

Hey, Guys, my name is Frank and THIS IS the Poth on Programming video log - Part 5
of how to make a tile based platforming game in Pure HTML5 & JavaScript.

Today I'm going to show YOU how I added Sprite Animation to the game so you can
take my example and use it to put sprite animation into your own programs! So
stay tuned to find out how it's done!

BULLETS

1. Changes since 4
  a. look at the example
  b. There were a lot of changes that you can read about in the source code
  c. Mainly we're looking at the Animator class and the render function in main.

2. How sprite animation works
  a. take frames from the tile sheet and draw them in quick succession to the screen.
  b. This is a frame rate dependent method, meaning animation speed depends on the
     game loop's framerate

3. In depth look at Animator class
  a. Animator class
  b. Player's animation related stuff
  c. render function in main

IN THIS VIDEO I'm going to talk about what's new in part 5. Then I'll give you a
very simple and brief refresher on how sprite animation works when using a sprite sheet,
and finally we'll take an in depth look at the Animator class and how it works with
the player's movement to render the appropriate animations.

If you learn something, give this video a like, and if you have any questions or
comments, of course those go in the comments section! Now let's get to the video!

CONCLUSION

In this video I talked a bit about how sprite animation works and how I did the
sprite animation for this example program. It's hard to cover everything in just
one video, so if you have questions please ask, and if you have any ideas on how
I can improve my content, let me know! This program is reaching the point where
it's too big to understand the whole thing if you haven't watched from the beginning,
so if you feel a little lost, I suggest going back and watching the first four videos
in this series, and of course be sure to check out the source code on my Github Page!

Anyway, thanks for watching, and I'll see you next time!
